---
post_title: Former KCC Softball Player
date: 2018-09-07 07:00:00
categories:
  - general
  - news
  - softball
sport-category: General
news_thumb_image: /assets/img/cavaliers-logo.png
description: Former KCC Softball Player
---

BISMARCK, ND – Steph Roan, with coaching experience at the NCAA Division II level, national tournament appearances as a student-athlete and significant experience in the Northern Sun Intercollegiate Conference, is the new University of Mary head softball coach.&nbsp;<br>&nbsp;<br>Roan joins the Marauders after serving as assistant coach at NCAA Division II Fort Lewis College of the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference (RMAC) last season. Before that, she coached at St. Cloud State University, her alma mater and a fellow member of the Northern Sun Intercollegiate Conference (NSIC).<br><br>"Steph Roan has all the attributes needed to build our team into an upper echelon program," said Marauders athletic director Dale Lennon. "She has had impressive mentors as both a player and a coach and understands the importance to create a strong team culture. We are excited about Steph's passion for the game and ability to teach and communicate with student-athletes."<br>&nbsp;<br>"Successful as both a college player and a coach and who understands our campus values and culture, Steph Roan is a positive addition to the University of Mary community," said University of Mary President Monsignor James Shea. "Steph exhibits a wonderful exuberance for the game of softball and a passion to get the best out of the young women she coaches. Her character and presence will serve both the university and her student-athletes very well."<br>&nbsp;<br>"I would like to thank Dale Lennon, Monsignor Shea, and the search committee for giving me an opportunity to become the head softball coach for the University of Mary," said Roan. "I have competed against UMary both as a player and a coach and saw firsthand some of the extremely talented student-athletes that have come through the Marauders program. My goal is to build upon the solid foundation that already exists and elevate it to new heights. I envision this program to not only strive for excellence and integrity on the field, but also in the community and classroom. I look forward to leading this new era of UMary softball."<br>&nbsp;<br>Roan joined the Fort Lewis College staff in July 2017 for her first full-time collegiate coaching position. The St. Charles, IL, native, was involved in all aspects of the Skyhawks program including recruiting, fundraising, player skill development, practice organization and game day duties. In her lone season with FLC in 2018, the Skyhawks improved by 10 wins overall from the previous season while doubling their conference win total from five to 10.<br>&nbsp;<br>"We are very sad to see Steph go as she was a huge asset to our program but we are also very excited for her," said Fort Lewis College head coach Elle Fracker. "We know that she will do awesome things in her coaching career and are very excited that she has this opportunity. Steph helped our program grow and we know she will do the same for UMary."<br>&nbsp;<br>Roan began her collegiate coaching career as a graduate assistant coach at St. Cloud State, serving from 2015-17. Her numerous duties included assisting with practice and game day responsibilities, recruiting, academic success, social media and graphic design. She helped coach an NSIC Gold Glove recipient and the team received nine NSIC All-Academic and two NFCA All-Academic honors. Offensively the squad finished in the top five in on base percentage, hits, walks and runs scored. The Huskies also improved by six wins from her first to the second year, posting 32 wins in 2017 and finishing 5th in the NSIC. Both overall wins and conference finish was a then-best for the Huskies since rejoining the NSIC for the 2008 season.<br>&nbsp;<br>A utility player and team captain for the Huskies from 2012-2014, Roan started all 78 games she competed in, collecting 55 hits, 29 runs scored, 26 runs batted in, nine doubles, and five homeruns while recording a .944 fielding percentage.<br>&nbsp;<br>"Steph will bring a solid work ethic and coaching knowledge to her new position as the head coach at the University of Mary," said Dr. Paula U'Ren, the St. Cloud State University head softball coach. "As both a player and coach within our Huskies softball program she has shown her passion for the game and is prepared for this opportunity to lead UMary softball. She brings a wealth of knowledge on not only the x's and o's of the game but is familiar with the NSIC. Steph will do a great job preparing her players for success as NCAA DII student-athletes."<br>&nbsp;<br>Roan transferred to SCSU from Kankakee Community College (IL).&nbsp; She was a unanimous all-region tournament team selection in 2011, helping her team win the Region IV championship title before placing third in the nation. She ranked in the top 10 nationally in runs batted in (76) and homeruns (12) while helping her team to the most wins in a season the following year (61 wins in 2012). Roan ranks in the top 25 career charts in hits, homeruns, batting average and at-bats at KCC.<br>&nbsp;<br>After earning a bachelor's degree in Elective Studies from SCSU in 2015, Roan received her graduate degree in Academic Administration and Leadership from SCSU in 2017.